:orphan:
*************
Version 1.2.0
*************

New features
============

  - A new build system based on Modern CMake.
  - First implementation of level 3 isolation on Musca-B1 and AN521.
  - Remove MCUBoot fork from TF-M.
  - Move test and app code to tf-m-tests repo.
  - Add Profile Medium.
  - Migrate support to Mbed TLS v2.24.
  - New platforms added.
    See :ref:`releases/1.2.0:New platforms supported` for
    details.
  - New SPM HAL APIs including isolation API and logging API.
  - Update MCUboot version to 1.7.0-rc1.
  - Initial ITS/PS HAL for dynamic filesystem configuration.
  - Remove auto-generated files from the source tree.

New security advisories
=======================

Stack sealing
-------------

Refer to :doc:`Advisory TFMV-1</security/security_advisories/stack_seal_vulnerability>`
for more details.
A common mitigation is included in this release.

New platforms supported
=======================

- Cortex-M33 based system:

  - `Nordic nRF9160 DK (nordic_nrf/nrf9160dk_nrf9160).
    <https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF9160-DK>`_
  - `Nordic nRF5340 PDK (nordic_nrf/nrf5340pdk_nrf5340_cpuapp).
    <https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF5340-PDK>`_
  - `Nordic nRF5340 DK (nordic_nrf/nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp).
    <https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF5340-PDK>`_

- Cortex-M23 based system:

  - `Nuvoton M2351.
    <https://www.nuvoton.com/products/iot-solution/iot-platform/numaker-pfm-m2351/>`_

- Cortex-M55 based system:

  - `Corstone-300 Ethos-U55 FVP (Cortex-M55 plus Ethos-U55 SSE-300 MPS3).
    <https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/arm-platforms-software/arm-ecosystem-fvps>`_

Tested platforms
================

The following platforms are successfully tested in this release.

 - AN519
 - AN521
 - Musca-B1
 - MPS2 SSE300
 - PSoC 64
 - M2351
 - nrf5340dk
 - nrf5340pdk
 - nrf9160dk
 - LPCXpresso55S69
 - NUCLEO-L552ZE-Q
 - STM32L562E-DK

Known issues
============

Some open issues exist and will not be fixed in this release.

.. list-table::

  *  - **Descriptions**
     - **Issue links**

  *  - | PSA Arch Crypto tests have several known failures.
     - See this link for detailed analysis of the failures:
       https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/w/tf_m/release/psa_arch_crypto_test_failure_analysis_in_tf-m_v1.2_release/

Issues fixed since 1.1
======================

Issues fixed by TF-M since v1.1 are listed below.

.. list-table::

  *  - **Descriptions**
     - **Issue links**

  *  - | The eflash driver on Musca-B1 can return random failures hence
       | triggering random failures during PSA Arch ITS and PSA Arch PS tests.
       | This happens when ITS/SST is configured to use flash.
     - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T697

Issues closed since 1.1
=======================

The following issues are closed since v1.1. These issues are related to platform
hardware limitations or 3rd-party tools and therefore won't be fixed by TF-M.

.. list-table::

  *  - **Descriptions**
     - **Issue links**

  *  - | All the supported GNUARM toolchain versions generate corrupt veneer
       | code for Armv8-M baseline architecture, when the -Os optimization flag
       | is used. This affects the Armv8-M baseline platforms built with GNUARM
       | toolchain and Minsizerel build type.
       | It relies on an official release of GNUARM toolchain to fix this issue.
     - https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=95646

  *  - | AN521 FVP soft reset via AIRCR does not reset MPC / PPC / MPU and will
       | cause boot failure. This is a known issue for AN521 FVP. This will
       | cause the system to fail to boot after a warm reset during PSA Arch FF
       | testing.
     - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T692

  *  - | There are 2 additional failures for PSA-Arch Crypto tests with CC-312
       | other than the known failures. This is due to limitation of CC-312
       | implementation as it does not support MD_NONE hashing mode causing the
       | additional failures.
     - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T691

  *  - | Boot up fails if there is unexpected data in flash on Musca-A. The boot
       | is successful and the tests pass if all the associated (PS/ITS/NV
       | Counter) flash areas are erased.
     - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T694

  *  - | If the flash is not erased, boot fails on Musca-B1 when SST is using
       | flash for Minsizerel config.
     - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T695

--------------

*Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.*
