*************
Version 1.4.0
*************

New major features
==================

  - Documentation restructure and enhancements.
  - PSA Crypto migrates to Mbed TLS 'v3.0.0'.
  - First-Level Interrupt Handling (FLIH) [1]_ proof of concept on AN521 and MUSCA-B1.
  - Firmware Update service enhancement to support image update with dependencies.
  - Partitions get loaded with `Static Load` mechanism.
  - Decouple NS RTOS specific implementation from NS interface.
  - PSA Crypto API interface updated to be based on `Stateless Handle`.
  - MCUboot updated to version 'TF-Mv1.4-integ' to support multiple images in RAM_LOAD and DIRECT_XIP upgrade strategies.
  - New platforms added.
    See :ref:`releases/1.4.0:New platforms supported` for details.

New security advisories
=======================

'abort' function may not take effect in some TF-M Crypto multi-part operations
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Refer to :doc:`Advisory TFMV-3 </security/security_advisories/crypto_multi_part_ops_abort_fail>`
for more details.
The mitigation is included in this release.

New platforms supported
=======================

  - Cortex-M33 based system:

    - `BL5340 DVK.
      <https://www.lairdconnect.com/wireless-modules/bluetooth-modules/bluetooth-5-modules/bl5340-series-multi-core-bluetooth-52-802154-nfc-modules>`_

Deprecated platforms
====================

The following platforms have been removed from TF-M code base.

  - nRF5340 PDK
  - Musca_A

See :doc:`Platform deprecation and removal </platform/ext/platform_deprecation>`
for other platforms under deprecation process.

Tested platforms
================

The following platforms are successfully tested in this release.

- AN519
- AN521
- AN524
- AN547
- LPCXpresso55S69
- Musca-B1
- Musca-B1 Secure Enclave
- Musca-S1
- M2351
- M2354
- NUCLEO-L552ZE-Q
- nrf5340dk
- nrf9160dk
- PSoC 64
- STM32L562E-DK

Known issues
============

Some open issues are not fixed in this release.

.. list-table::

  * - **Descriptions**
    - **Issue links**

  * - | PSA Arch Crypto test suite have several known failures.
    - See this `link <https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/w/tf_m/release/psa_arch_crypto_test_failure_analysis_in_tf-m_v1.4_release/>`_
      for detailed analysis of the failures.

  * - | Protected Storage Regression test 4001 is stuck on SSE-300 in isolation
      | level 2 when PXN is enabled.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T902

  * - | NS interrupt masking prevents from executing PSA calls.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T950

  * - | Image size overflow on Musca-B1 PSA Arch test suite debug build.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T952

  * - | Build errors in PSA api tests for initial attestation.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T953

  * - | Non Secure Image size overflow on STM32L562E-DK PSA Arch Crypto.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T954

Issues fixed since 1.3.0
========================

Issues fixed by TF-M since v1.3.0 are listed below.

.. list-table::

  * - **Descriptions**
    - **Issue links**

  * - | IPC Regression test fail when non-secure regression test is enabled and
      | secure regression test is disabled.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T903

  * - | Panic test in PSA Arch IPC test suite generates inconsistent results
      | between Armclang and GNUARM.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T909

Reference
=========

  .. [1] `Arm Firmware Framework for M 1.1 Extensions <https://developer.arm.com/documentation/aes0039/latest>`_

--------------

*Copyright (c) 2021, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.*
