*************
Version 1.6.0
*************

New major features
==================

  - MCUboot updated to v1.9.0.
  - Mbed TLS updated to v3.1.0 (Support all required PSA Crypto APIs).
  - Enabled Secure Function (SFN) Model Partition compliance in IPC backend.
  - Interrupt support (both SLIH/FLIH) for the SFN backend.
  - MM-IOVEC Support for the SFN backend.
  - The following Secure Partitions are converted to SFN model:

    - Protected Storage
    - Internal Trusted Storage
    - Initial Attestation

  - FF-M v1.1 SFN Model supported in Profile Small.
  - HAL Separation of Library Model and IPC/SFN backend.
  - FP support for Armv8.1-M Mainline for IPC backend.
  - Simplified build output message and configurable output.
  - Halting instead of rebooting on panic in debug build type.
  - Automated testing of MCUboot BL2.
  - A new driver interface for the CC-312 runtime library as specified in the PSA Unified Driver spec [1]_.
  - Added reference bootloader stage 1 (BL1) bootloader for certain platforms.
  - A new CC312 ROM library for the BL1.
  - Updated documentation structure.

New security advisories
=======================

  - :doc:`TFMV-5. </security/security_advisories/fwu_write_vulnerability>`

New platforms supported
=======================

  - :doc:`AN552. </platform/ext/target/arm/mps3/an552/README>`

Deprecated platforms
====================

None

Tested platforms
================

The following platforms are successfully tested in this release.

- AN519
- AN521
- AN547
- B-U585I-IOT02A
- Corstone-1000
- Corstone-Polaris
- LPCXpresso55S69
- Musca-B1
- Musca-S1
- nrf9160
- nrf5340
- NUCLEO-L552ZE-Q
- PSoC 64
- STM32L562E-DK

Known issues
============

Some open issues are not fixed in this release.

.. list-table::

  * - **Descriptions**
    - **Issue links**

  * - | PSA Arch framework test suite has several known failures.
    - PSA Arch framework test failures [3]_

Issues closed since v1.5.0
==========================

The following issues in v1.5.0 known issues list are closed.

.. list-table::

  * - **Descriptions**
    - **Issue links**

  * - | Arm Compiler [SDCOMP-59788]. See the Arm Compiler 6.18 release note [2]_ For details.
    - https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/T979

Reference
=========


.. [1] `PSA Unified Driver spec <https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/blob/development/docs/proposed/psa-driver-interface.md>`_

.. [2] `Arm Compiler 6.18 release note: <https://developer.arm.com/-/media/Arm%20Developer%20Community/Downloads/Arm%20Compiler%20for%20Embedded/6-18/Release%20notes%20for%20Arm%20Compiler%20for%20Embedded%206.pdf>`_

.. [3] `PSA Arch framework test failures <https://developer.trustedfirmware.org/w/tf_m/release/psa_arch_ff_test_result_in_tf-m_v1.6_release/>`_

--------------

*Copyright (c) 2022, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.*
